# MoonboardLSTM
This projects tests a LSTM-based approach to the classification of climbing grades for Moonboard climbing problems. The approach involves converting a list of holds for a particular problem into a sequence of moves (called a 'beta'). The 'beta' is generated by simply starting from the start holds and iteratively moving to the closest holds until the end holds are reached. This beta generation algorithm, while relatively simple, creates a sequence of moves that is somewhat realistic. Along with a beta sequence, information such as the distance and angle required to move to the next hold is also provided to the LSTM. 

A dataset of around 20,000 Moonboard problems was scraped from the Moonboard website. The approach is compared to two other approaches: a baseline LSTM approach which generates a random beta, and a CNN-based approach which was initially explored [here](http://cs229.stanford.edu/proj2017/final-reports/5232206.pdf). Similar to the CNN paper, the problem of classifying grades for climbing problems is approached from an ordinal regression perspective.

There is plenty of room for further exploration here. Firstly, it would be interesting to compare the results against the Graphical CNN approach used in this [repo](https://github.com/gestalt-howard/moonGen). Additionally, the beta generation algorithm could be tweaked in many ways, such as by allowing the beta generation algorithm to skip a hold in some situations (such as if moving to that hold would move you significantly further away from the end holds).
